This is the moment where we're going
to move all of the stuff on our
website from CodePen into VSCode.
And I'm actually going to let
you take the first pass at this.
And I'll walk through setting
up the file structure with you.
And then I'm gonna let you do
this part copy over the code on
your own to get the practice of moving
from one environment to another.
So what we're going to do first is we're
gonna set up a file structure on your
desktop, and I'll walk you through
how to do that here in just a moment.
And what we're going to do
is go through your CodePens.
So we have one for the intro that
we put together, we have one for
the footer, and we have one for
the navbar, and one for the contact.
So that's four of the five sections on
that homepage we've actually already
finished.
So you'll go back and
investigate those CodePens and
copy in their code into the VS code and
then we'll debug.
So let's start here with
setting up our file structure.
So what we're going to do is
right here on your desktop,
we're gonna make a new folder,
and I'm gonna call this folder,
the portfolio Folder.
So that will give us a start here.
I like to put it on the desktop
because then it's really easy to find,
if you wanna put it somewhere
else in your file structure on
your computer that's just fine.
It's just easier to find
on the desktop sometimes.
And then I'm going to
open up my VSCode here.
And again,
you can use any text editor that you want,
I am using VSCode there's a link for
it back in chapter one under prerequisites
if you would like to download this and
install this on your own computer.
And now I'm just gonna simply
grab that portfolio folder and
drag it and drop it inside of VS Code.
And I'm gonna say don't save.
For the question that it asks,
and then you should see that,
so you may see a welcome panel
over here on the side, and
over here on the left hand side you
see absolutely nothing, all is well.
Inside of that portfolio folder
that has absolutely nothing in it
we're gonna create two more folders.
So, however you do that in your
environment, go ahead and do that.
I'm going to create a folder called Image,
I-M-G for image,
and I'm gonna create a folder called CSS,
just like that.
And once I create them here,
they will also show up in VS Code.
Those of you who know VS Code, yes you
can also create your folders there.
So once you've got that in place
you have your portfolio folder.
Inside of that is a CSS
folder with nothing in it,
an image folder with nothing in it.
Let's start our HTML file and a CSS
file so that you have those ready to go.
So right here in this Welcome tab,
you can click on New File,
that's what we wanna do.
And it will ask you to select
a language to get started.
So let's do the HTML first.
If you scroll on down to HTML here, there
we go, that will start you in HTML file.
The advantage here is that now we
can type an exclamation point,
one single exclamation point,
and then hit Tab.
So you have to make sure that when you
start your New File it's the type of HTML.
Then you're gonna type an exclamation
point just one and hit Tab, not return but
Tab and it will fill in all of this
information here for you automatically.
That is a functionality called Emmet,
that drives all of that,
it's a really great little
shortcut to getting started.
I'm gonna change the title of
my document to Jen Kramer's
portfolio website or
whatever else you want to do for
the title of your document, and
then we can just save it File Save.
It will ask us what we wanna call it,
we wanna call it index.HTML.
Why index?
Because index.HTML is one of those
default file names that if you
were to put this up on a server somewhere,
it would be recognized
generally speaking by that server
as the homepage for the website.
You call it index or you call it default
and there's a couple of other names.
So, we'll say Save.
So that's in place.
Now what I'm going to do, I'm gonna go
back to that welcome Tab or you can go to
New File, is the other way to get there,
and I'm gonna make a CSS stylesheet.
So we'll select a language and
I'm gonna select CSS from list and
we can save this.
That's gonna go inside
of the CSS folder and
let's call it style.CSS because
we're really creative that way.
Okay?
Back in our HTML now we need to
link those two things together.
So we have our HTML document,
we have our CSS document, but
they're not talking to each other yet,
so let's make them talk to each other.
In the head of your document, it can go
anywhere in the head of your document.
I usually put mine towards the end
of the head of the document,
often after the title.
We'll add to this link href equals quote,
we're gonna go to CSS,
we're gonna go to style.CSS,
and we'll add rel equals stylesheet.
So that's gonna link our stylesheet
document to our HTML document.
Super important to get started.
So I'm gonna have you do pretty
much the second part here.
So what you're going to
do now is the following.
For the very last CodePen that we worked
on working on the Footer grab that CSS and
we're just gonna copy and
paste that into the stylesheet and
you're done with your CSS that's all.
Then what you're going to do
is in the HTML file you're
gonna need to make links to Google Fonts.
Remember that's oxygen and oxygen mono
that we've been working with unless you
have other font choices that
you've been working with.
You're gonna have to generate that whole
bit of HTML that Google will give you,
drop that into the head of your document,
you'll need to do the same for
the Font Awesome font pack.
And then go through each one
of the individual CodePens,
as I mentioned navigation, the intro,
the contact and the footer.
Get that HTML, copy and
paste that into the HTML document,
clean it all up, make sure it flows well,
format your HTML and
so forth, and
it is not going to be perfect.
We're gonna have to walk
through those issues but
that's as far as I would like for
you to get for now.
Have fun, moving from CodePen into
VS Code, and then we're gonna debug and
clean everything up.
So, if you had ran into
problems along the way or
anything else you could take a look
at my files they're on GitHub,
and inside of that you'll see
where chapter four begin.
Those are the files after you
did those first threeish steps.
So if you got hung up or confused along
the way that you can download that
folder and continue to move
forward here with the workshop.
Let's just take a peek at those now.
So we'll start here with the HTML.
And over here we've got Google fonts and
you looked up oxygen mono,
and you looked up oxygen, and
you loaded up those styles,
Google gives you this bit of
HTML down here at the bottom,
this goes in the head of your document.
So that is, That's what's going on here,
we've got our links to our various Google
thoughts up here on the top of the page.
As for font awesome,
what I wound up doing to just sort
of make things simple,
any CodePen here under the CSS.
If you took a look here,
there was a link that was given to you
here inside of the CodePen
to Font Awesome.
And so
what I did was I copied that link and
I put that in just a regular old link,
href.
There's that link from from CodePen, Rel
equals stylesheet, so that would give you
the Font Awesome styles, and then after
all of that is the link to our stylesheet.
And as I mentioned before that style
sheet is just simply to take the styles
that you had to that point in time for
the footer Copy all of those styles
because the footer was
the last CodePen we worked on.
We've been accumulating styles
through all of those exercises, so
everything is here, we just copied and
pasted that into this style sheet.
Now in terms of the HTML,
we had to give a little bit of thought
as to what order we put things in.
So, we have of course,
the body tag starts it all off.
Then we follow that up with here's all
of the navigation bar that we had put
together, there's that chunk of code,
that's followed by the chunk of
code from the intro copied and
pasted in that HTML there.
Then we have a chunk of code here for
the contact, so
we grabbed that from that CodePen and
pasted that into place.
And then finally down here at
the bottom we have the footer okay,
so hopefully that worked out okay for you.
And, when we put this into a web browser.
It looks something like this.
Did you all get something similar?
In other words, not necessarily
the prettiest thing in the world,
and there's definitely
some issues going on here.